# Reading09

## Dunder Methods “magic methods”

- In Python, special methods are a set of predefined methods you can use to enrich your classes. They are easy to recognize because they start and end with double underscores, for example `__init__` or `__str__`.

- As it quickly became tiresome to say under-under-method-under-under Pythonistas adopted the term “dunder methods”, a short form of “double under.”

- Object Initialization: `__init__`: Right upon starting my class I already need a special method. To construct account objects from the Account class I need a constructor which in Python is the `__init__` dunder:

  - example
    > def **init**(self, owner, amount=0):<br>
    > """<br>
    > This is the constructor that lets us create<br>
    > objects from this class<br>
    > """<br>
    > self.owner = owner<br>
    > self.amount = amount<br>
    > self.\_transactions = []<br>

- Object Representation: `__str__, __repr__`
  - `__repr__` : The “official” string representation of an object. This is how you would make an object of the class. The goal of `__repr__` is to be unambiguous.
  - `__str__`: The “informal” or nicely printable string representation of an object. This is for the enduser.
- Iteration: `__len__`, `__getitem__`, `__reversed__`

  - In order to iterate over our account object I need to add some transactions. So first, I’ll define a simple method to add transactions. I’ll keep it simple because this is just setup code to explain dunder methods, and not a production-ready accounting system:

- Operator Overloading for Comparing Accounts: `__eq__`, `__lt__` these dunder methods not have to implement all of the comparison dunder methods, you use the functools.total_ordering decorator which allows you to take a shortcut, only implementing eq and lt.
- Operator Overloading for Merging Accounts: `__add__`: In Python, everything is an object. We are completely fine adding two integers or two strings with the + (plus) operator.
- Callable Python Objects: `__call__`: we can make an object callable like a regular function by adding the `__call__` dunder method. For our account class we could print a nice report of all the transactions that make up its balance.

## Statistics - Probability

### What is probability?

- At the most basic level, probability seeks to answer the question, “What is the chance of an event to be happened?” An event is some outcome of interest. To calculate the chance of an event happening, we also need to consider all the other events that can occur.

### From statistics to probability

- Our data will be generated by flipping a coin 10 times and counting how many times we get heads. We will call a set of 10 coin tosses a trial. Our data point will be the number of heads we observe. We may not get the “ideal” 5 heads, but we won’t worry too much since one trial is only one data point. If we perform many, many trials, we expect the average number of heads over all of our trials to approach the 50%. The code below simulates 10, 100, 1000, and 1000000 trials, and then calculates the average proportion of heads observed. Our process is summarized in the image below as well.

### Revisiting the normal

- Central limit theorem, which indicates that for larger the assumption count, the more normal the probability becomes.
- Three Sigma Rule, it is an expression of how many of our observations fall within a certain distance of the mean.
- Z-score, is a simple calculation that answers the question, “Given a data point, how many standard deviations is it away from the mean?”.
